apps/docs/versioned_docs/version-V4/glossary.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 9
---

# Glossary

## Identity

The identity of a user in the Semaphore protocol. A Semaphore identity consists of an [EdDSA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/EdDSA) public/private key pair and a [commitment](#identity-commitment). Semaphore uses an [EdDSA](https://github.com/privacy-scaling-explorations/zk-kit/tree/main/packages/eddsa-poseidon) implementation based on [Baby Jubjub](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2494) and [Poseidon](https://www.poseidon-hash.info).

## Identity commitment

The public [Semaphore identity](#identity) value used in [Semaphore groups](#group). Semaphore uses the [Poseidon](https://www.poseidon-hash.info) hash function to create the identity commitment from the Semaphore identity public key.

## Group

A group is a [Merkle tree](#merkle-tree) in which each leaf is an [identity commitment](#identity-commitment) for a user. Semaphore uses the [LeanIMT](https://zkkit.pse.dev/classes/_zk_kit_lean_imt.LeanIMT.html) implementation, which is an optimized binary incremental Merkle tree. The tree nodes are calculated using [Poseidon](https://www.poseidon-hash.info).

## Merkle tree

A [tree](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Merkle_tree) in which every leaf (i.e., a node that doesn't have children) is labelled with the cryptographic hash of a data block,
and every node that isn't a leaf is labelled with the cryptographic hash of its child node labels.
In zero-knowledge protocols, Merkle trees can be used to efficiently summarize and validate large data sets.
To validate that a tree contains a specific leaf, a verifier only needs a portion of the complete data structure.

## Scope

A value used like a topic on which users can generate a valid proof only once. The scope is supposed to be used to generate the [nullifier](#nullifier).

## Nullifier

A value designed to be a unique identifier and used to prevent the same zero-knowledge proof from being used twice. In Semaphore, the nullifier is the hash of the scope and private key of the user's Semaphore identity.

## Message

The term "message" in Semaphore refers to the value the user broadcasts when voting, confirming, sending a text message and so on.

## Relay

A third-party who could receive a fee for including relayed transactions in the blockchain (McMenamin, Daza, and Fitz. https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/155.pdf, p.3).
To preserve the anonymity of the user broadcasting a message with Semaphore, an application may use a relayer to send the transaction to Ethereum on behalf of the user.

## Trusted setup

A trusted setup in the context of zero-knowledge proofs, particularly zk-SNARKs, is a preparatory phase where [certain parameters](#trusted-setup-files) are generated for later use in creating and verifying proofs. This process must be conducted by trusted parties, as any retained secret information (toxic waste) could compromise the system's integrity by enabling the creation of false proofs.

## Trusted setup files

The secure, verifiable parameters generated by Semaphore's trusted setup ceremony. Semaphore uses the trusted setup files to generate and verify valid zero-knowledge proofs. The [Semaphore circuit](/technical-reference/circuits) includes a parameter to set the tree's maximum depth (MAX_DEPTH). During the trusted setup, parameters are specifically generated for each circuit instance, aligning with their designated MAX_DEPTH (from 1 to 32).

Commit message:

docs(docs): info about anonymity groups
re #811

apps/docs/versioned_docs/version-V4/glossary.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 9
---

# Glossary

## Identity

The identity of a user in the Semaphore protocol. A Semaphore identity consists of an [EdDSA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/EdDSA) public/private key pair and a [commitment](#identity-commitment). Semaphore uses an [EdDSA](https://github.com/privacy-scaling-explorations/zk-kit/tree/main/packages/eddsa-poseidon) implementation based on [Baby Jubjub](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2494) and [Poseidon](https://www.poseidon-hash.info).

## Identity commitment

The public [Semaphore identity](#identity) value used in [Semaphore groups](#group). Semaphore uses the [Poseidon](https://www.poseidon-hash.info) hash function to create the identity commitment from the Semaphore identity public key.

## Group

A group is a [Merkle tree](#merkle-tree) in which each leaf is an [identity commitment](#identity-commitment) for a user. Semaphore uses the [LeanIMT](https://zkkit.pse.dev/classes/_zk_kit_lean_imt.LeanIMT.html) implementation, which is an optimized binary incremental Merkle tree. The tree nodes are calculated using [Poseidon](https://www.poseidon-hash.info).

Groups also serve as [anonymity sets](#anonymity-set) in Semaphore. When you generate a proof, you prove you are _one of the group members_ without revealing _which member_ you are. The size of the group directly affects your privacy - larger groups provide stronger anonymity.

## Anonymity set

The set of users among whom an individual is hiding. In Semaphore, the anonymity set is the [group](#group) to which your [identity](#identity) belongs. When you generate a proof, observers know the proof came from _someone in the group_, but cannot determine _which specific member_ created it. The larger the anonymity set (group size), the stronger your privacy protection. For example, in a group of 100 members, you are one of 100 possibilities (1% chance of identification), whereas in a group of 10 members, you are one of 10 possibilities (10% chance).

## Merkle tree

A [tree](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Merkle_tree) in which every leaf (i.e., a node that doesn't have children) is labelled with the cryptographic hash of a data block,
and every node that isn't a leaf is labelled with the cryptographic hash of its child node labels.
In zero-knowledge protocols, Merkle trees can be used to efficiently summarize and validate large data sets.
To validate that a tree contains a specific leaf, a verifier only needs a portion of the complete data structure.

## Scope

A value used like a topic on which users can generate a valid proof only once. The scope is supposed to be used to generate the [nullifier](#nullifier).

## Nullifier

A value designed to be a unique identifier and used to prevent the same zero-knowledge proof from being used twice. In Semaphore, the nullifier is the hash of the scope and private key of the user's Semaphore identity.

## Message

The term "message" in Semaphore refers to the value the user broadcasts when voting, confirming, sending a text message and so on.

## Relay

A third-party service that submits blockchain transactions on behalf of users. Relays are essential for privacy in Semaphore because they prevent your Ethereum address from being publicly linked to your proofs.

**Privacy role**: Without a relay, submitting a proof directly from your wallet creates a public connection between your Ethereum address and the proof. Even though the proof itself is anonymous, observers can link all proofs submitted from the same address. Relays break this link by submitting transactions from their own address.

Relays may receive a fee for their service. For more details, see McMenamin, Daza, and Fitz's research on relayers: https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/155.pdf

## Trusted setup

A trusted setup in the context of zero-knowledge proofs, particularly zk-SNARKs, is a preparatory phase where [certain parameters](#trusted-setup-files) are generated for later use in creating and verifying proofs. This process must be conducted by trusted parties, as any retained secret information (toxic waste) could compromise the system's integrity by enabling the creation of false proofs.

## Trusted setup files

The secure, verifiable parameters generated by Semaphore's trusted setup ceremony. Semaphore uses the trusted setup files to generate and verify valid zero-knowledge proofs. The [Semaphore circuit](/technical-reference/circuits) includes a parameter to set the tree's maximum depth (MAX_DEPTH). During the trusted setup, parameters are specifically generated for each circuit instance, aligning with their designated MAX_DEPTH (from 1 to 32).
