apps/docs/versioned_docs/version-V4/what-is-semaphore.md, before:

---
id: introduction
title: What Is Semaphore?
sidebar_position: 1
slug: /
---

## Overview

[Semaphore](https://github.com/semaphore-protocol/semaphore/tree/main) is a [zero-knowledge](https://z.cash/technology/zksnarks) protocol that allows you to cast a message (for example, a vote or endorsement) as a provable group member without revealing your identity.
Additionally, it provides a simple mechanism to prevent double-signaling.
Use cases include private voting, whistleblowing, anonymous DAOs and mixers.

## Features

With Semaphore, you can allow your users to do the following:

1. [Create a Semaphore identity](/guides/identities/).
2. [Add their Semaphore identity to a group (i.e. _Merkle tree_)](/guides/groups/).
3. [Send a verifiable, anonymous message (e.g a vote or endorsement)](/guides/proofs/).

When a user broadcasts a message, Semaphore zero-knowledge
proofs can ensure that the user has joined the group and hasn't already cast a message with their nullifier.

Semaphore uses on-chain Solidity contracts and off-chain JavaScript libraries that work in tandem.

-   Off chain, JavaScript libraries can be used to create identities, manage groups and generate proofs.
-   On chain, Solidity contracts can be used to manage groups and verify proofs.

## Developer benefits

Semaphore is designed to be a simple and generic _privacy layer_ for decentralized applications (dApps) on Ethereum. It encourages modular application design, allowing dApp developers to choose and customize the on-chain and off-chain components they need.

## About the code

The core of the protocol is the [circuit logic](https://github.com/semaphore-protocol/semaphore/tree/main/packages/circuits/src/semaphore.circom).
In addition to circuits,
Semaphore provides [Solidity contracts](https://github.com/semaphore-protocol/semaphore/tree/main/packages/contracts)
and [JavaScript libraries](https://github.com/semaphore-protocol/semaphore/tree/main#-packages) that allow developers to generate zero-knowledge proofs and verify them with minimal effort.

## Trusted Setup Ceremony

The [secure parameters](https://snark-artifacts.pse.dev) for generating valid proofs with Semaphore circuits were generated in a [Trusted Setup Ceremony](https://ceremony.pse.dev/projects/Semaphore%20V4%20Ceremony) that was completed with over 400 participants on [13 July 2024](https://etherscan.io/block/20300394).

### Audits

| Version | Auditors                          | Report                                                                           | Scope                                |
| ------- | --------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------ |
| v2.0.0  | [PSE](https://pse.dev/)           | [Semaphore_2.0.0_Audit.pdf](https://semaphore.pse.dev/Semaphore_2.0.0_Audit.pdf) | `circuits`, `contracts`              |
| v2.5.0  | [PSE](https://pse.dev/)           | [Semaphore_2.5.0_Audit.pdf](https://semaphore.pse.dev/Semaphore_2.5.0_Audit.pdf) | `contracts`, `libraries`             |
| v3.0.0  | [Veridise](https://veridise.com/) | [Semaphore_3.0.0_Audit.pdf](https://semaphore.pse.dev/Semaphore_3.0.0_Audit.pdf) | `circuits`, `contracts`              |
| v4.0.0  | [PSE](https://pse.dev/)           | [Semaphore_4.0.0_Audit.pdf](https://semaphore.pse.dev/Semaphore_4.0.0_Audit.pdf) | `circuits`, `contracts`, `libraries` |

Commit message:

docs: add specification document link to website and docs

apps/docs/versioned_docs/version-V4/what-is-semaphore.md, after:

---
id: introduction
title: What Is Semaphore?
sidebar_position: 1
slug: /
---

## Overview

[Semaphore](https://github.com/semaphore-protocol/semaphore/tree/main) is a [zero-knowledge](https://z.cash/technology/zksnarks) protocol that allows you to cast a message (for example, a vote or endorsement) as a provable group member without revealing your identity.
Additionally, it provides a simple mechanism to prevent double-signaling.
Use cases include private voting, whistleblowing, anonymous DAOs and mixers.

For in-depth technical details about Semaphore, refer to the [Semaphore V4 Specification](https://github.com/zkspecs/zkspecs/blob/main/specs/3/README.md).

## Features

With Semaphore, you can allow your users to do the following:

1. [Create a Semaphore identity](/guides/identities/).
2. [Add their Semaphore identity to a group (i.e. _Merkle tree_)](/guides/groups/).
3. [Send a verifiable, anonymous message (e.g a vote or endorsement)](/guides/proofs/).

When a user broadcasts a message, Semaphore zero-knowledge
proofs can ensure that the user has joined the group and hasn't already cast a message with their nullifier.

Semaphore uses on-chain Solidity contracts and off-chain JavaScript libraries that work in tandem.

-   Off chain, JavaScript libraries can be used to create identities, manage groups and generate proofs.
-   On chain, Solidity contracts can be used to manage groups and verify proofs.

## Developer benefits

Semaphore is designed to be a simple and generic _privacy layer_ for decentralized applications (dApps) on Ethereum. It encourages modular application design, allowing dApp developers to choose and customize the on-chain and off-chain components they need.

## About the code

The core of the protocol is the [circuit logic](https://github.com/semaphore-protocol/semaphore/tree/main/packages/circuits/src/semaphore.circom).
In addition to circuits,
Semaphore provides [Solidity contracts](https://github.com/semaphore-protocol/semaphore/tree/main/packages/contracts)
and [JavaScript libraries](https://github.com/semaphore-protocol/semaphore/tree/main#-packages) that allow developers to generate zero-knowledge proofs and verify them with minimal effort.

## Trusted Setup Ceremony

The [secure parameters](https://snark-artifacts.pse.dev) for generating valid proofs with Semaphore circuits were generated in a [Trusted Setup Ceremony](https://ceremony.pse.dev/projects/Semaphore%20V4%20Ceremony) that was completed with over 400 participants on [13 July 2024](https://etherscan.io/block/20300394).

### Audits

| Version | Auditors                          | Report                                                                           | Scope                                |
| ------- | --------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------ |
| v2.0.0  | [PSE](https://pse.dev/)           | [Semaphore_2.0.0_Audit.pdf](https://semaphore.pse.dev/Semaphore_2.0.0_Audit.pdf) | `circuits`, `contracts`              |
| v2.5.0  | [PSE](https://pse.dev/)           | [Semaphore_2.5.0_Audit.pdf](https://semaphore.pse.dev/Semaphore_2.5.0_Audit.pdf) | `contracts`, `libraries`             |
| v3.0.0  | [Veridise](https://veridise.com/) | [Semaphore_3.0.0_Audit.pdf](https://semaphore.pse.dev/Semaphore_3.0.0_Audit.pdf) | `circuits`, `contracts`              |
| v4.0.0  | [PSE](https://pse.dev/)           | [Semaphore_4.0.0_Audit.pdf](https://semaphore.pse.dev/Semaphore_4.0.0_Audit.pdf) | `circuits`, `contracts`, `libraries` |
